README.md, before:

[![wercker status](https://app.wercker.com/status/d6b4d4035c2ccc4e92f9ed40ae3f727d/s/master "wercker status")](https://app.wercker.com/project/byKey/d6b4d4035c2ccc4e92f9ed40ae3f727d)

![Corewar](https://github.com/gareththegeek/corewar/blob/master/corewarg.png)

# Corewar

Typescript / Javascript implementation of the classic game [corewar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Core_War)

Currently this project contains a redcode parser and core simulator.

In future we hope to include a corewar IDE with debugger, an interactive core simulation and a number of hills. The UI will be provided from this project https://github.com/gareththegeek/corewar-ui

## Getting Started

This project is published to NPM where it is intended to be used as a dependency for UI based projects who wish to use the corewar parser and simulator functionality.

To add it to your UI project, `npm install corewar` and then consume it via an import / require:

`import { corewar } from 'corewar';`

The corewar variable will initialise a new instance of the Api class ready for use.

## API

At the moment, the API exposed is still in flux, we anticipate the following endpoints.

### parse(document: string, options?: IParseOptions): IParseResult

Parse a redcode document and return an IParse result which consists of the tokenised program and any associated messages.

### initialiseSimulator(standardId: number, parseResult: IParseResult)

Setup the simulator for a specific standard and parseResult (parsed redcode)

### step()

Step the simulator forward one cycle

### run()

Run the simulator to the end of the match

## Events

Beyond the main API, the following messages are available to subscribe to:

### CORE_INITIALISE

Contains the initial state of the simulator core and process tree.

```
{
  state: IState
}
```

### CORE_ACCESS

Published when a warrior reads to, writes from or executes within the core

```
[{
  warriorId: number,      // Each warrior has a unique id
  accessType: AccessType, // AccessType can be 0=read, 1=write or 2=execute
  address: number         // Absolute address within the core
}]
```

### RUN_PROGRESS

Used to monitor progress towards the end of the round

```
{ 
  runProgress: number // Indicates current cycle as a percentage of maximum cycles
}
```

### ROUND_END

Published at the end of the round to indicate the outcome

```
{
  winnerId: number,  // The unique id of the winning warrior or null
  outcome: string     // Can be 'WIN', 'DRAW' or 'NONE'. 'NONE' indicates a single warrior battle
}
```

### TASK_COUNT

Published whenever a warrior creates or loses a task.

```
[{
  warriorId: number,  // The unique id of the warrior
  taskCount: number   // The warrior's current task count
}]
```

## Testing

[![wercker status](https://app.wercker.com/status/d6b4d4035c2ccc4e92f9ed40ae3f727d/m/master "wercker status")](https://app.wercker.com/project/byKey/d6b4d4035c2ccc4e92f9ed40ae3f727d)

Corewar is extensively unit tested, run `npm test` to execute the tests and see the coverage.

Unit test debugging is configured to run in `VS Code`

## Getting involved

We'd love your feedback, input and PR's. We're a friendly bunch, please contact us through GitHub with questions, suggestions and issues.

Commit message:

Add NEXT_EXECUTION message to readme

README.md, after:

[![wercker status](https://app.wercker.com/status/d6b4d4035c2ccc4e92f9ed40ae3f727d/s/master "wercker status")](https://app.wercker.com/project/byKey/d6b4d4035c2ccc4e92f9ed40ae3f727d)

![Corewar](https://github.com/gareththegeek/corewar/blob/master/corewarg.png)

# Corewar

Typescript / Javascript implementation of the classic game [corewar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Core_War)

Currently this project contains a redcode parser and core simulator.

In future we hope to include a corewar IDE with debugger, an interactive core simulation and a number of hills. The UI will be provided from this project https://github.com/gareththegeek/corewar-ui

## Getting Started

This project is published to NPM where it is intended to be used as a dependency for UI based projects who wish to use the corewar parser and simulator functionality.

To add it to your UI project, `npm install corewar` and then consume it via an import / require:

`import { corewar } from 'corewar';`

The corewar variable will initialise a new instance of the Api class ready for use.

## API

At the moment, the API exposed is still in flux, we anticipate the following endpoints.

### parse(document: string, options?: IParseOptions): IParseResult

Parse a redcode document and return an IParse result which consists of the tokenised program and any associated messages.

### initialiseSimulator(standardId: number, parseResult: IParseResult)

Setup the simulator for a specific standard and parseResult (parsed redcode)

### step()

Step the simulator forward one cycle

### run()

Run the simulator to the end of the match

## Events

Beyond the main API, the following messages are available to subscribe to:

### CORE_INITIALISE

Contains the initial state of the simulator core and process tree.

```
{
  state: IState
}
```

### CORE_ACCESS

Published when a warrior reads to, writes from or executes within the core

```
[{
  warriorId: number,      // Each warrior has a unique id
  accessType: AccessType, // AccessType can be 0=read, 1=write or 2=execute
  address: number         // Absolute address within the core
}]
```

### RUN_PROGRESS

Used to monitor progress towards the end of the round

```
{ 
  runProgress: number // Indicates current cycle as a percentage of maximum cycles
}
```

### ROUND_END

Published at the end of the round to indicate the outcome

```
{
  winnerId: number,  // The unique id of the winning warrior or null
  outcome: string     // Can be 'WIN', 'DRAW' or 'NONE'. 'NONE' indicates a single warrior battle
}
```

### TASK_COUNT

Published whenever a warrior creates or loses a task.

```
[{
  warriorId: number,  // The unique id of the warrior
  taskCount: number   // The warrior's current task count
}]
```

### NEXT_EXECUTION

Published once per call to step and indicates the next address which will be executed

```
{
  warriorId: number,  // The unique id of the next warrior
  address: number     // The address in core at which the next warrior will execute
}
```

## Testing

[![wercker status](https://app.wercker.com/status/d6b4d4035c2ccc4e92f9ed40ae3f727d/m/master "wercker status")](https://app.wercker.com/project/byKey/d6b4d4035c2ccc4e92f9ed40ae3f727d)

Corewar is extensively unit tested, run `npm test` to execute the tests and see the coverage.

Unit test debugging is configured to run in `VS Code`

## Getting involved

We'd love your feedback, input and PR's. We're a friendly bunch, please contact us through GitHub with questions, suggestions and issues.
